How to stay up to date (#38)
fastruby/blog: _posts/2019-09-11-how-to-stay-up-to-date.markdown

---
layout: post
title: How to Stay Up to Date with Your Rails Application
date: 2019-08-27 13:56:00
categories: ["Rails", "Upgrades"]
author: bronzdoc
---

An outdated Rails application doesn't happen overnight. In FastRuby.io we work with a lot of clients who have outdated Rails applications and we help them upgrade to a newer Rails version. In this article I share some things that you could start doing to avoid falling out of date.

<!--more-->

### Stop monkey patching

> In our experience having monkey-patched gems is usually one of the hardest things to deal with. We have to spend hours updating monkey-patched gems to make them compatible with newer Rails APIs. So please keep that in mind before monkey patching Rails core libraries or gems that depend on specific Rails versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our experience, having monkey-patched gems is usually one of the hardest things to deal with. We have to spend hours updating monkey-patched gems to make them compatible with newer Rails APIs. So please keep that in mind before monkey patching Rails core libraries or gems that depend on specific Rails versions.
```

### Start treating deprecations warnings as errors

> In Rails you can configure this option, so everytime a deprecation warning occurs you can address it as soon as you can.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Rails you can configure this option, so everytime a deprecation warning occurs you can address it as soon as possible.
```

This will help you to fix the issue immediately and be prepared for the next version jump.

You will need to add the following configuration in your `config/environments/test.rb` and `config/environments/test.rb` files.

```ruby
  # Raise error on deprecation¬
  config.active_support.deprecation = :raise
```

> ### Dual Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Dual boot
```

One of the first things we do at FastRuby.io when we start a new Rails upgrade project is to setup a "Dual Boot" Gemfile.
What this setup will do is allow you to have two Gemfile.lock files, one for the latest version of Rails and one for your current version of Rails.

With this setup you will be able to configure your CI to run both versions of Rails. As long as you "mark" the Rails master build job as "optional" it won't block your PR merges. You will have the chance to see how your test behaves with the latest version of Rails.

We even wrote a [blog post](https://www.fastruby.io/blog/upgrade-rails/dual-boot/dual-boot-with-rails-6-0-beta.html) about this setup, you should check it out.

### Check for outdated gems

> You can use bundle outdated to check outdated gems in your current bundle. While `bundle outdated` is quite useful it doesn't give us details relative to our own `Gemfile`. In Ombu Labs we like to use  [next_rails](https://rubygems.org/gems/next_rails/versions/1.0.0) because this gem will give us a set of tools to check for outdated gems, check incompatibilities, and even bootstrap an upgrade project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use `bundle outdated` to check outdated gems in your current bundle. While `bundle outdated` is quite useful it doesn't give us details relative to our own `Gemfile`. In Ombu Labs we like to use  [next_rails](https://rubygems.org/gems/next_rails/versions/1.0.0) because this gem will give us a set of tools to check for outdated gems, check incompatibilities, and even bootstrap an upgrade project.
```

> You can use bundle outdated to check outdated gems in your current bundle. While `bundle outdated` is quite useful it doesn't give us details relative to our own `Gemfile`. In Ombu Labs we like to use  [next_rails](https://rubygems.org/gems/next_rails/versions/1.0.0) because this gem will give us a set of tools to check for outdated gems, check incompatibilities, and even bootstrap an upgrade project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use bundle outdated to check outdated gems in your current bundle. While `bundle outdated` is quite useful it doesn't give us details related to our own `Gemfile`. In Ombu Labs we like to use [next_rails](https://rubygems.org/gems/next_rails/versions/1.0.0) because this gem will give us a set of tools to check for outdated gems, check incompatibilities, and even bootstrap an upgrade project.
```

### Automated updates
[Dependabot](https://dependabot.com/) is a bot that will open a PR in your Github repository whenever a dependency is outdated. Dependabot was acquired by Github and it's now free of charge.
You can still install Dependabot from the Github Marketplace until it's integrated into GitHub

<div style="text-align: center; width: 500px;">
  <img src="/blog/assets/images/dependabot/dependabot.png">
</div>

> We know not all of you use Github but if it happens that you use it, dependabot would be a really nice adition to your tools to keep you up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We know not all of you use Github but if it happens that you do use it, dependabot would be a really nice addition to your tools to keep you up to date.
```

> ### Bundler audit

Reviewer 3: @bronzdoc I think you should mention our audit tool (https://audit.fastruby.io/) in this section

Author: @lubc good idea

Author: Done @lubc

> Your application has dependencies. Those dependencies can have security vulnerabilities(CVE's) and malicious persons can take advantage of this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application has dependencies. Those dependencies can have security vulnerabilities(CVE's) and malicious people can take advantage of this.
```

> A tool that we use to make sure our clients dependencies are free of gems with CVE's is [bundler-audit](https://github.com/rubysec/bundler-audit), bundler-audit will scan your current bundle and will compare it with an internal database of know CVE's. If bundler-leak finds any gem affected by a CVE it will dislplay all the information of the affected gem.

Reviewer: It says bundler-leak but I'm thinking maybe you meant bundler-audit? Line 3 of the paragraph.

> A tool that we use to make sure our clients dependencies are free of gems with CVE's is [bundler-audit](https://github.com/rubysec/bundler-audit), bundler-audit will scan your current bundle and will compare it with an internal database of know CVE's. If bundler-leak finds any gem affected by a CVE it will dislplay all the information of the affected gem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A tool that we use to make sure our clients dependencies are free of gems with CVE's is [bundler-audit](https://github.com/rubysec/bundler-audit), bundler-audit will scan your current bundle and will compare it with an internal database of know CVE's. If bundler-audit finds any gem affected by a CVE it will display all the information of the affected gem.
```

```shell
$ bundle audit

Name: actionpack
Version: 3.2.10
Advisory: OSVDB-91452
Criticality: Medium
URL: http://www.osvdb.org/show/osvdb/91452
Title: XSS vulnerability in sanitize_css in Action Pack
Solution: upgrade to ~> 2.3.18, ~> 3.1.12, >= 3.2.13

Name: actionpack
Version: 3.2.10
Advisory: OSVDB-91454
Criticality: Medium
URL: http://osvdb.org/show/osvdb/91454
Title: XSS Vulnerability in the `sanitize` helper of Ruby on Rails
Solution: upgrade to ~> 2.3.18, ~> 3.1.12, >= 3.2.13

Name: actionpack
Version: 3.2.10
Advisory: OSVDB-89026
Criticality: High
URL: http://osvdb.org/show/osvdb/89026
Title: Ruby on Rails params_parser.rb Action Pack Type Casting Parameter Parsing Remote Code Execution
Solution: upgrade to ~> 2.3.15, ~> 3.0.19, ~> 3.1.10, >= 3.2.11

Name: activerecord
Version: 3.2.10
Advisory: OSVDB-91453
Criticality: High
URL: http://osvdb.org/show/osvdb/91453
Title: Symbol DoS vulnerability in Active Record
Solution: upgrade to ~> 2.3.18, ~> 3.1.12, >= 3.2.13

```

> you can integrate bundler audit into your build steps and have it running everytime you run your default task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can integrate bundler audit into your build steps and have it running everytime you run your default task.
```

> For example, this is how it looks if you would integrate it with your default rake task. It will check for CVE's in your bundle first and then will run your test suite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, this is how it looks if you integrate it with your default rake task. It will check for CVE's in your bundle first and then will run your test suite.
```

```ruby
# Rakefile

require 'bundler/audit/task'

task default: %i[
  bundle:audit
  bundle exec rspec
]
```

### Test coverage

Test coverage is really important, with each major gem update you can potentially break your application, so having a test suite in shape can help you catch errors and fix them as soon as possible.

> We use [siimplecov](https://github.com/colszowka/simplecov). Simplecov is a neat tool that can help you see your test suite coverage percent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use [SimpleCov](https://github.com/colszowka/simplecov). SimpleCov is a neat tool that can help you see your test suite coverage percent.
```

> We use [siimplecov](https://github.com/colszowka/simplecov). Simplecov is a neat tool that can help you see your test suite coverage percent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [siimplecov](https://github.com/colszowka/simplecov). Simplecov is a neat tool that can help you see your test suite coverage percentage. 
```

> You could configure simplecov to fail if test coverage don'r met a minimum coverage threshold.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You could configure SimpleCov to fail if test coverage don'r met a minimum coverage threshold.
```

```ruby
# rails_helper.rb

require 'simplecov'

SimpleCov.start do
  minimum_coverage ENV['MIN_COVERAGE']
  add_filter '/spec/'
end

SimpleCov.at_exit do
  SimpleCov.result.format!
  if SimpleCov.result.covered_percent < SimpleCov.minimum_coverage
    puts "Test coverage #{SimpleCov.result.covered_percent} does not met the minimum coverage #{treshold SimpleCov.minimum_coverage}"
    exit(1)
  end
end
```

## Conclusion

> These suggestions are what we recommend and are not laws. Different projects need different things but we hope you find this list of recommendations helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These suggestions are what we recommend and don't apply to all cases. Different projects need different things, but we hope you find this list of recommendations helpful.
```

---
layout: post

> title: How to stay up to date with your Rails application

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc Please titleize using the same pattern we have been using in other articles. For example: How to Upgrade Any Rails Application Using Docker (see: https://fastruby.io/blog/rails/upgrades/southeast-ruby-upgrade-rails-workshop.html)

date: 2019-08-27 13:56:00

> categories: ["Rails", "Upgrade"]

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc Please try to use the same categories we have been using for other similar articles. It should be "Upgrades"

author: bronzdoc
---

> How to stay up to date with your rails application

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc This should be an intro paragraph. Right now it is just repeating the title. You want to give a summary of what this article is about. It shows up in the articles index page and it should make the visitor want to read your article 😄

<!--more-->

In Fastruby.io we work with alot of clients which have outdated Rails applications, we help them upgrade to a newer Rails version.

An outdated Rals application doesn't happen over night, and there are things that you could start doing to avoid going into an outdated project, that will be difficult to maintain and migrate later on.

### Stop monkey patching

In our experience having monkey patched gems when doing an upgrade usually is one of the hardest things to deal with since work hours would have to be put to make the monkey patched gem compatible with the new Rails version. So Have that in mind before dedicating time to monkey patch rails core libraries or gems that depend on an specific rails versions.

### Start treating Deprecations warnings as errors.

In Rails you can configure this option, so everytime a deprecation warning occurs you can address it as soon as you can.
This will help you to fix the issue rigth a away and be prepared for the next version jump.

```ruby
  # Raise error on deprecation¬
  config.active_support.deprecation = :raise

> ```

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc Where do you recommend they add this? In all environments or just `test.rb`?  It is not clear to me

### Check for outdated gems

> You can use bundle outdated to check outdated gems in your current bundle. While `bundle outdated` is quite useful it doesn't give us details relative to our own `Gemfile`. In Ombulabs we like to use  [next_rails](https://rubygems.org/gems/next_rails/versions/1.0.0) this gem will give us a set of tools to check for outdated gems, check incompatibilities and even bootstrap an upgrade project.

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc It would be great if you can expand on this. It would be great if you can write a rake task that checks for `bundle outdated` and if it finds any _new_ outdated dependencies it exits with a non-zero status. It is similar to the idea of running `bundler audit` and failing the test suite if there is a new known vulnerability: https://github.com/alphagov/e-petitions/blob/master/Rakefile#L11-L14

Author: Well i think something is wrong here, i think `bundle outdated` do give us details relative to our Gemfile, so i'll have to rephrase this i think.

### Automated updates
[Dependabot](https://dependabot.com/) is a bot that will open a PR in your Github repository whenever a dependency is outdated. Dependabot was adquired by github and it's now free of charge.
You can still install Dependabot from the GitHub Marketplace whilst it's integrated it completely into GitHub

<div style="text-align: center; width: 500px;">
  <img src="/blog/assets/images/dependabot/dependabot.png">
</div>

### Test coverage

> This is really important, with each major gem update you can potentially break your application, having a test suite in shape can help you catch errors and fix them as soon as they appear.

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc How do you feel about the idea of using SimpleCov to check for overall test percentage and have a mechanism that fails the test suite if the test coverage percentage drops past a certain threshold? 

We have implemented logic like that in the past and it is a good way to keep teams accountable. If you are adding code that is causing the test coverage percentage to drop below the current coverage percentage, fail loudly.

Author: That would definitely be helpful

Author: > We have implemented logic like that in the past and it is a good way to keep teams accountable.

Could you share the implementation of this?

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc Sorry, can't find it anywhere. 

But it is pretty simple: 

1. Output SimpleCov data in text format at the end of the test suite 
2. Grab the number and use it with this feature: https://github.com/colszowka/simplecov#minimum-coverage

## Conclusion

> This are things that we recomend and are not laws, different pojects need different things but we hope you find this list of recommendations helpful it helpful!

Reviewer 2: @bronzdoc I think it would be great if you can add a section about `bundler-audit` -- every project should keep up with the latest security issues. Something like this: https://github.com/alphagov/e-petitions/blob/master/Rakefile#L11-L14

We can't assume that everyone is using Dependabot or GitHub, so using a task like the one in that project is quite useful. `bundle exec rake` fails loudly if there are new advisories that affect your project. 

You can see what it looks like over here too: https://speakerdeck.com/etagwerker/upgrade-rails-101-the-roadmap-to-smooth-upgrades-southeast-ruby-19?slide=122

Author: I Kept the dependabot section since I think is a nice took to be up to date, but modify it to make sure we are aware that not all the the people use Github, but in case that you do is a nice tool.

Author: Also added bundler-audit section

---
layout: post
title: How to Stay Up to Date with Your Rails Application
date: 2019-08-27 13:56:00
categories: ["Rails", "Upgrades"]
author: bronzdoc
---

> An outdated Rails application doesn't happen overnight. In Fastruby.io we work with a lot of clients which have outdated Rails applications and we help them upgrade to a newer Rails version. In this article are some things that you could start doing to avoid going into an outdated project that would be difficult to maintain and migrate later on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An outdated Rails application doesn't happen overnight. In FastRuby.io we work with a lot of clients which have outdated Rails applications and we help them upgrade to a newer Rails version. In this article are some things that you could start doing to avoid going into an outdated project that would be difficult to maintain and migrate later on.
```

> An outdated Rails application doesn't happen overnight. In Fastruby.io we work with a lot of clients which have outdated Rails applications and we help them upgrade to a newer Rails version. In this article are some things that you could start doing to avoid going into an outdated project that would be difficult to maintain and migrate later on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An outdated Rails application doesn't happen overnight. In FastRuby.io we work with a lot of clients who have outdated Rails applications and we help them upgrade to a newer Rails version. In this article I share some things that you could start doing to avoid falling out of date.
```

<!--more-->

### Stop monkey patching

> In our experience having monkey patched gems when doing an upgrade usually is one of the hardest things to deal with since work hours have to be put to make the monkey patched gem compatible with the new Rails version. So Have that in mind before dedicating time to monkey patch rails core libraries or gems that depend on an specific rails versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our experience having monkey-patched gems is usually one of the hardest things to deal with. We have to spend hours updating monkey-patched gems to make them compatible with newer Rails APIs. So please keep that in mind before monkey patching Rails core libraries or gems that depend on specific rails versions.
```

> ### Start treating Deprecations warnings as errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Start treating deprecations warnings as errors.
```

In Rails you can configure this option, so everytime a deprecation warning occurs you can address it as soon as you can.
This will help you to fix the issue immediately and be prepared for the next version jump.

You will need to add the following configuration in your `config/environments/test.rb` and `config/environments/test.rb` files.

```ruby
  # Raise error on deprecation¬
  config.active_support.deprecation = :raise
```

### Dual Boot

> One of the first things we do at Fastruby.io when we start a new rails upgrade project is to setup a "Dual Boot" Gemfile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the first things we do at FastRuby.io when we start a new Rails upgrade project is to setup a "Dual Boot" Gemfile.
```

> What this setup will do is to allow you to have two Gemfile.lock's, one for the latest version of Rails and one for your current version of Rails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What this setup will do is allow you to have two Gemfile.lock files, one for the latest version of Rails and one for your current version of Rails.
```

> With this setup you'll be able to configure your CI to run both versions of Rails and as long as you can "mark" the rails master build job as "optional" and it doesn't block your PR merges, you'll be checking how your test behaves with the latest version of Rails.

Reviewer 2: Try writing paragraphs with smaller sentences. 

```suggestion
With this setup you will be able to configure your CI to run both versions of Rails. As long as you "mark" the Rails master build job as "optional" it won't block your PR merges. You will have the chance to see how your test behaves with the latest version of Rails.
```

We even wrote a [blog post](https://www.fastruby.io/blog/upgrade-rails/dual-boot/dual-boot-with-rails-6-0-beta.html) about this setup, you should check it out.

### Check for outdated gems

> You can use bundle outdated to check outdated gems in your current bundle. While `bundle outdated` is quite useful it doesn't give us details relative to our own `Gemfile`. In Ombulabs we like to use  [next_rails](https://rubygems.org/gems/next_rails/versions/1.0.0) because this gem will give us a set of tools to check for outdated gems, check incompatibilities and even bootstrap an upgrade project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use bundle outdated to check outdated gems in your current bundle. While `bundle outdated` is quite useful it doesn't give us details relative to our own `Gemfile`. In Ombu Labs we like to use  [next_rails](https://rubygems.org/gems/next_rails/versions/1.0.0) because this gem will give us a set of tools to check for outdated gems, check incompatibilities and even bootstrap an upgrade project.
```

### Automated updates

> [Dependabot](https://dependabot.com/) is a bot that will open a PR in your Github repository whenever a dependency is outdated. Dependabot was adquired by github and it's now free of charge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Dependabot](https://dependabot.com/) is a bot that will open a PR in your Github repository whenever a dependency is outdated. Dependabot was acquired by github and it's now free of charge.
```

> You can still install Dependabot from the GitHub Marketplace until it's integrated into GitHub

Reviewer 2: Same here: 

```suggestion
You can still install Dependabot from the Github Marketplace until it's integrated into GitHub
```

In a span of two paragraphs you spelled Github with three different formats.

<div style="text-align: center; width: 500px;">
  <img src="/blog/assets/images/dependabot/dependabot.png">
</div>

### Test coverage

> Test coverage is really important, with each major gem update you can potentially break your application, so having a test suite in shape can help you catch errors and fix them as soon as possible.

Reviewer 2: Copy/paste error.

This is really important...with each major gem update you can potentially break your application, so having a test suite in shape can help you catch errors and fix them as soon as they appear.

## Conclusion

> These are things that we recommend and are not laws. Different projects need different things but we hope you find this list of recommendations helpful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are some recommendations to stay up to date. We hope you find this list of recommendations helpful. What tips do you have to stay up to date? Let me know in the comments section! 
```
